Create initial EDA labs (#9)
rhpds/ansible-super-lab-showroom: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/31-events-log-streaming.adoc

= Lab: Resilient IIS Monitoring with Filebeat, Kafka, and EDA

== Introduction

In this lab, you will implement a production-grade automation pipeline. You will use an Ansible Playbook to configure **Filebeat** (installed via Chocolatey) to monitor IIS. These events will be published to a **Kafka** broker, where **Event-Driven Ansible (EDA)** will consume them to trigger self-healing playbooks.

== Prerequisites

* Chocolatey and Filebeat installed
* IIS running
* *Automation Controller* and *EDA Controller*

== 1: Create the Configuration Playbook

In the previous module we built and ran a automation that installed `Chocolatey` and `Filebeat`. In this lab we will add additional configuration and start Filebeat.

NOTE: We are testing this in a single playbook first, then plan to migrate this into the role `log_shipper` created in Module 2 after we test and confirm.

> . In your Git repository, create `setup_monitoring.yml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

. In your `lab_playbooks` repository, create `setup_monitoring.yml`:
```

            reload.enabled: false

          filebeat.inputs:
            - type: winlog
              name: System
              event_id: 7036
              processors:
                - add_fields:
                    target: ""
                    fields:
                      service_name: "W3SVC"

          output.kafka:
            hosts: ["cluster-kafka-bootstrap-kafka.apps.cluster-866kv.dyn.redhatworkshops.io:443"]
            topic: "eda-windows-iis-events"
            ssl.enabled: true
            ssl.verification_mode: none

    - name: Enable Filebeat IIS Module
      ansible.windows.win_shell: |
        .\filebeat.exe modules enable iis --path.home "{{ filebeat_dir }}" --path.config "{{ filebeat_dir }}"
      args:
        chdir: "{{ filebeat_dir }}"
      register: module_enable
      failed_when:
        - module_enable.rc != 0
        - "'already enabled' not in module_enable.stderr"

    - name: Restart Filebeat service
      ansible.windows.win_service:
        name: filebeat
        state: restarted
...
----
+
. Run the playbook
. Add and commit the files to the `lab_playbooks` git repo

== 2: Create the EDA Rulebook

> The EDA Rulebook must match the structure of the Kafka event:

Reviewer: There should be additional details related to this section of the exercise
